# WEC_23_Programming

Collaborators: Alexander Hamersma, Victor Kalenda, Camron Sabahi 

Spring 2023 Waterloo Engineering Competition Programming Solution

The problem statement can be viewed on S23 WEC Programming.pdf. The collaborators listed were responsible for the creation of the problem along with it's documentation. Special thanks to Professor Douglas Wilhelm Harder for providing us with the initial idea for the problem.

In this implementation a linked list of truckers is designed, each trucker in this linked list inherits a linked list of trips outlining each journey a trucker has taken throughout the week. Each journey logs the data required to output a valid solution to the json directory in cmake-build-debug. Additionally, a Queue is designed to store the information of each package's destination and deadline.

CSV_Solution.cpp contains the remnants of a past question when we initially developed the problem. This implementation takes csv files as input, which turned out to be far too complicated to implement. For this reason, the input files were change to json files to allow contestants to spend more time solving the problem. 

json_solution.json is the official solution to the question which contestants were asked to solve

Taking distance.json and input.json as input, input.json being generated by stage3-5.py, the following code successfully delivers 100 packages amoung 10 locations. Rush hour traffic simulation and late delivery logging is accounted for with truckers being limited from working more than 14 hours a day, and 70 hours a week.

The algorithm developed creates trucks with the goal of making them work as much as possible without breaking any laws. If trucks are unable to make a journey without being overworked, then a new trucker is added.

After the truckers have been added on Monday, the algorithm will iterate over the list of truckers in the field and once again try to make them work 14 hours on Tuesday, until all packages with a Tuesday deadline have been delivered. If all packages have been delivered for the day, then the algorithm will repeat the iteration over all the truckers until every package has been delivered for each day. If after going through all the truckers, there are still some packages with deadlines on the given day, then new truckers will be added to the network until the days demand has been filled.

